Clean attribute deletion walkthrough (#824)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/first-steps/manage-your-attributes.md

Please refer to [Manage your user roles](build-your-user-roles.html) to learn about roles.
:::

::: ee
An attribute that is used in a published product cannot be deleted. You first need to unpublish the product(s) and then delete the attribute.
:::

##Delete an attribute without keeping the related data

###Through the attribute edit form

1. Go to `Settings` / `Attributes`
1. Select the attribute to delete
1. Click on `...` for other actions and then `Delete` on the top right corner
  ![image](../img/Settings_Attributes_Delete.png)
1. Confirm the action in the popin

###Through the delete shortcut in the grid

1. Go to `Settings` / `Attributes`
1. Select the attribute you want to remove from the attribute grid
1. Place your mouse over the line of attribute in the grid, the button `Delete` is prompted (trash can icon)  
  ![image](../img/Settings_Attributes_GridDeleteHover.png)
1. Click on the trash can icon
1. Confirm the action in the popin

**The attribute and all its relevant information will be deleted in Akeneo PIM. Once you have confirmed the action, it cannot be reverted.**

> ##Delete an attribute and keeping the related data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##Delete an attribute and keep the related data
```

> If you need to change an attribute property (to make it scopable and/or localisable for instance), or if you want to change the attribute type (from a simple text to a text area for instance), you need to delete the attribute.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to change an attribute property (to make it scopable and/or localizable), or if you want to change the attribute type (from a simple text to a text area for instance), you need to delete the attribute.  
```

> But before doing so, **if you plan to recreate another attribute with the same code as previously used**, and if you want to keep the data already entered in this attribute, you will need to export the data (first step), delete the attribute (second step), create another attribute (third step), then reimport the data back (fourth step).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before doing so, **if you plan to create another attribute using the same code**, and if you want to keep the data already input for this attribute, you will first need to export the data, then delete the attribute. At this point, you need to create a new attribute, before you import the data back.  
```

> To do it, please follow this walkthrough:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This walkthrough will help you go through the different steps.
```

###First step: export the data

:::warning

> Before starting this step, make sure you know how to configure a new export profile. If you need more help, please read [How to create a new product export profile](#product-export-builder.html#create-a-new-product-export-profile).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, make sure you know how to configure a new export profile. If you need more help, please read our page on [How to create a new product export profile](#product-export-builder.html#create-a-new-product-export-profile).
```

:::

1. Go to `Exports` and click on `Create export profile`

> 1. Write a code and a label

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define a code and a label
```

> 1. Select the job in the `job` field, depending if you want to export products or product models (if you need to export both products and product models, you will need to create an export profile for each one)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the job in the `job` field, whether you want to export products or product models (if you need to export both, you will need to create an export profile for each)
```

![Select the job to export your data](../img/Delete-Attribute_Job_Export-profile.png)

> 1.  In the `Content`, filter the products by clicking on `Add attribute` and select the attribute you want to delete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In `Content`, filter the products by clicking on `Add attribute` and select the attribute you want to delete
```

> 1.  Set its value to "Is not empty"  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Set the value to "Is not empty"  
```

![Select the appropriate attribute](../img/Delete-Attribute_Job_Export-profile_Content.png)

> 1. In `Global settings` tab, make sure the option `Export with labels` is not activated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In `Global settings`, make sure the option `Export with labels` is not activated
```

1. Check the different other options (channel, locales, format...) to refine your export and click on `Save`
1.  Click on `Export now`

###Second step: delete the attribute

> To delete the attribute, follow one of these two ways below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete the attribute, you have two options:
```

> * Through the [attribute edit form](manage-your-attributes.html#through-the-attribute-edit-form)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the [attribute edit form](manage-your-attributes.html#through-the-attribute-edit-form)
```

> * Through the [delete shortcut](manage-your-attributes.html#through-the-delete-shortcut-in-the-grid) in the grid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the [delete shortcut](manage-your-attributes.html#through-the-delete-shortcut-in-the-grid) in the grid
```

::: warning

> If you plan to delete a simple or multi select attribute, and if you want to keep their data, you will also need to export the attribute options through the Akeneo default export profile named `Demo XLSX attribute option export`. If this profile is'nt available in your PIM, please go back to the first step and instead of selecting the product or the product model job, select the attribute options export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan to delete a simple or multi select attribute, and if you want to keep their data, you will also need to export the attribute options through the Akeneo default export profile named `Demo XLSX attribute option export`. If this profile is not available in your PIM, please go back to the first step, and instead of selecting the product or the product model job, select the attribute options export.
```

:::
![Export attribute options](../img/Delete-Attribute_Job_Export-Attribute-options.png)

###Third step: create the new attribute

To complete this step, please read [how to create an attribute](manage-your-attributes.html#how-to-create-an-attribute).

> Here you can even create the new attribute with the same code that was used on your previous attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can create the new attribute using the same code that was used for the attribute you just deleted.
```

:::warning

> Once you've deleted an attribute, a processus start in order to clear all product values set for this attribute. While this process is running, you cannot create another attribute with the exact same code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've deleted an attribute, a process starts in order to clear all product values set for this attribute. While this process is running, you cannot create another attribute with the exact same code.
```

:::

###Fourth step: import the data back

1. Go to `Imports` and click on `Create import profile`

> 1. Write a code and a label

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define a code and a label
```

> 1. Select the job in the `job` field, depending if you want to import products or product models (if you need to export both products and product models, you will need to create an import profile for each one)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the job in the `job` field, whether you want to import products or product models (if you need to export both, you will need to create an import profile for each)  
```

Before doing so, **if you plan to create another attribute using the same code**, and if you want to keep the data already input for this attribute, you will need to:
1. Export the data
1. Delete the attribute
1. Create a new attribute
1. Import the data back

This walkthrough will help you go through the different steps.

### First step: export the data

:::warning
Before you begin, make sure you know how to configure a new export profile. If you need more help, please read our page on [How to create a new product export profile](#product-export-builder.html#create-a-new-product-export-profile).
:::

1. Go to `Exports` and click on `Create export profile`
1. Define a code and a label
1. Select the job in the `job` field, whether you want to export products or product models (if you need to export both, you will need to create an export profile for each)
![Select the job to export your data](../img/Delete-Attribute_Job_Export-profile.png)
1.  In `Content`, filter the products by clicking on `Add attribute` and select the attribute you want to delete

> 1.  Set the value to "Is not empty"  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Set the value to `Is not empty` 
```

![Select the appropriate attribute](../img/Delete-Attribute_Job_Export-profile_Content.png)
1. In `Global settings`, make sure the option `Export with labels` is not activated
1. Check the different other options (channel, locales, format...) to refine your export and click on `Save`
1.  Click on `Export now`

### Second step: delete the attribute

To delete the attribute, you have two options:
* From the [attribute edit form](manage-your-attributes.html#through-the-attribute-edit-form)
* From the [delete shortcut](manage-your-attributes.html#through-the-delete-shortcut-in-the-grid) in the grid

::: warning
If you plan to delete a simple or multi select attribute, and if you want to keep their data, you will also need to export the attribute options through the Akeneo default export profile named `Demo XLSX attribute option export`. If this profile is not available in your PIM, please go back to the first step, and instead of selecting the product or the product model job, select the attribute options export.
:::
![Export attribute options](../img/Delete-Attribute_Job_Export-Attribute-options.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: I feel like this warning should be under the first step section, as it is part of the "export data" step. Am I right?

Author: Definitely right, I'll change the paragraph.

### Third step: create the new attribute

To complete this step, please read [how to create an attribute](manage-your-attributes.html#how-to-create-an-attribute).
Here you can create the new attribute using the same code that was used for the attribute you just deleted.

> :::warning

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
::: warning
```

Reviewer 3: La phrase apparait en gras et non dans un encadré warning :)

# Delete an attribute

There are two ways to remove an attribute:
* Through the attribute edit form
* Through the delete shortcut in the grid

> You can also choose if you want to loose or to keep the data used by this attribute.

Reviewer 4: This is ambiguous. The choice is not proposed in the PIM. I would write something like 
> When removing an attribute, all values related to this attribute are lost. If you want to keep this attribute values, please read the part "Delete an attribute and keeping the related data".

Author: Good point, thanks.

> You can also choose if you want to loose or to keep the data used by this attribute.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can also choose if you want to lose or to keep the data related to this attribute.
```

::: warning
If you cannot access the attribute page or if you cannot add/delete an attribute, it is probably because you do not have the permission to.  
Please refer to [Manage your user roles](build-your-user-roles.html) to learn about roles.
:::

::: warning

> Please first delete your attribute from the families it is used in and then from the products. After this, you will be able to delete safely your attribute.

Reviewer 4: honest question, why do you need to remove it from the families first ?

Author: Don't know, this sentence was already written. I deleted it.

:::

::: ee
An attribute that is used in a published product cannot be deleted. You first need to unpublish the product(s) and then delete the attribute.
:::

##Delete an attribute without keeping the related data

::: warning
Please first delete your attribute from the families it is used in and then from the products. After this, you will be able to delete safely your attribute.
:::

###Through the attribute edit form

1.  Go to `Settings` / `Attributes`
1.  Select the attribute to delete
1.  Click on `...` for other actions and then `Delete` on the top right corner
  ![image](../img/Settings_Attributes_Delete.png)

> 1.  Confirm the action in the popin

Reviewer 4: I think it's not intentional, but you added unnecessary spaces here.

Author: Corrected!

###Through the delete shortcut in the grid

1.  Go to `Settings` / `Attributes`
1.  Select the attribute you want to remove from the attribute grid
1.  Place your mouse over the line of attribute in the grid, the button `Delete` is prompted (trash can icon)  
  ![image](../img/Settings_Attributes_GridDeleteHover.png)
1.  Click on the trash can icon
1.  Confirm the action in the popin

**The attribute and all its relevant information will be deleted in Akeneo PIM. Once you have confirmed the action, it cannot be reverted.**

##Delete an attribute and keeping the related data

If you need to change an attribute property (to make it scopable and/or localisable for instance), or if you want to change the attribute type (from a simple text to a text area for instance), you need to delete the attribute.  
But before doing so, **if you plan to recreate another attribute with the same code as previously used**, and if you want to keep the data already entered in this attribute, you will need to export the data (first step), delete the attribute (second step), create another attribute (third step), then reimport the data back (fourth step).  

> To do it so, please follow this walkthrough:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To do it, please follow this walkthrough:
```
Camille will better proofread than me.

:::

1.  Go to `Exports` and click on `Create export profile`
1.  Write a code and a label
1.  Select the job in the `job` field, depending if you want to export products or product models (if you need to export both products and product models, you will need to create an export profile for each one)
![Select the job to export your data](../img/Delete-Attribute_Job_Export-profile.png)
1.  In the `Content`, filter the products by clicking on `Add attribute` and select the attribute you want to delete
1.  Set its value to "Is not empty"  
![Select the appropriate attribute](../img/Delete-Attribute_Job_Export-profile_Content.png)
1. In `Global settings` tab, make sure the option `Export with labels` is not activated
1. Check the different other options (channel, locales, format...) to refine your export and click on `Save`
1.  Click on `Export now`

###Second step: delete the attribute

To delete the attribute, follow one of these two ways below:
* Through the [attribute edit form](manage-your-attributes.html#through-the-attribute-edit-form)
* Through the [delete shortcut](manage-your-attributes.html#through-the-delete-shortcut-in-the-grid) in the grid

::: warning

> If you plan to delete a simple or multi select attribute, and if you want to keep their data, you will also need to export the attribute options through the Akeneo default export profile named `Demo XLSX attribute option export`.

Reviewer 4: What about PIM already installed where this demo export is no more ?
Do we need to expand on this ?

Author: Good point. Adding more documentation. Thanks :)
